README.md, before:

# Am I getting food poisoning? :taco: :nauseated_face:

Spend less time on the :toilet:	loo and more time enjoying the amazing variety of cuisines available in the UK :taco: :pizza: :hamburger: :green_salad:

This is a Chrome Extension checking the Food Standards Agency's ratings (Food Hygene Information Scheme in Scotland) on Deliveroo so you know what to expect when ordering.

**Method**

1, get restaurant data (name and postcode) from the deliveroo menu page

2, send request with name and postcode to FSA's API

3, get the rating and display it somewhere on the deliveroo menu page

**Features/todo**

:white_medium_square: Welsh language support

:white_medium_square: Image to link the result on FSA's website for more info

:white_medium_square: Tests. There are a **bunch** of edgecases out there that are getting a bit tedious to test manually

## :book: Dev Diary

### Day 0 - Why am I doing this?

Being a UX developer I think users deserve to know if they are taking the food poisoning lottery. There should be an easy and quick way to check for this. Before you walk into a restaurant you can make this decision easily by looking at the mandatory FSA rating sign in the window. So why can't you get the same convenience whilst you are lying on your couch in your pajamas feeling too disgusting or lazy to pop ou for some takeaway?

I've had enough of Deliveroo's reluctance of displaying the Food Standards Agency's ratings on their website so I've decided to make a Chrome Extension.

Only problem: I've never in my life made an Extension before. But hey, I know coding...sort of.

This should be easy:

**1,** get restaurant data (name and address) from the deliveroo menu page

**2,** send request with name and address to FSA's API

**3,** get the rating and display it somewhere on the deliveroo menu page

### Day 1 - Maybe I can do this?

So, I've gone through a [nice little tutorial](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/getstarted) on the Chrome Dev site and I may not be too stupid to do this.

I've put together the basics, have a script running and the extension activates when you go on Deliveroo's website.

![My extension listed on the chrome extensions screen](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569250159/blog/extension1_ddlu5k.png)

### Day 2 - The importance of properly formatting your data

Managed to make a GET request to FSA's API and actually get an answer. Yay! Just had to add a header to my fetch() which I've never done before being reliant on AJAX/JQuery in the past.

```
fetch(`${apiURL}?name=${restaurantName}&address=${restaurantAddress}&pageSize=1`, {
 method: "GET",
 mode: "cors",
 headers: {
   "x-api-version": 2,
 }
})
```

#### :poop: Today's Challenge

- Deliveroo has the full address displayed in one `<small>` tag.
- The FSA API takes either a street name, city or **properly formatted** postcode as an address.

Naturally, I'd go for using the postcode as that's pretty unique. _However_, Deliveroo provides it without spaces. Go with as much of the address as possible then? Can't do that because FSA's API doesn't take combined data.

Let me demonstrate the cause of my headache with a _Burger King_ "restaurant" with the address Deliveroo provides: _90 Whitechapel High St, London, London, E17RA._

```
let restaurantAddress = "90 Whitechapel High St, London, London, E17RA"
// FAIL! FSA API will send me an empty array

let restaurantAddress = "E17RA"
// FAIL! Another empty array. FSA expects the proper formatting which is E1 7RA

let restaurantAddress = "90 Whitechapel High St, London"
// FAIL! Yep, still empty

let restaurantAddress = "90 Whitechapel High St"
// SUCCESS!

```

**Options**

1, Get the proper postcodes from - possibly - the Ordnance Survey and use those to format the ones I get from Deliveroo. I've Googled around, read a few Stackoverflow threads and concluded that I don't want to start hating myself so...

2, Cross my fingers and hope that providing the street address combined with the restaurant name will result in the FSA API returning data for the right restaurant in the proper city.

Going with #2, unsurprisingly. Will probably add some sort of confirmation/information bit next to the rating to let the user know which restaurant's rating the API coughed up. Maybe add a line of _Showing rating for xy restaurant in xyx 12x postcode_ (because funnily enough in the response the postcode is separated from the address lines...)

### Day 3 - The first taste of success :tada: :tada: :tada:

At first there was a number 4...

![A lonely number 4 displayed on Burger King's Deliveroo page](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569250161/blog/4444_ft1iv7.png)

*(Note how I've expertly managed to overwrite the restaurant description in my haste of using .innerhtml= instead of +=. Ooops.)*

After a little fiddling with cloud storage and some agonising over whether to use a bunch of if statements vs a switch statement I've finally arrived to this:

![Food Standards Agency's rating image displayed on Burger King's Deliveroo page](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569250206/blog/success_j78y07.png)


#### :poop: Today's Challenge

You know how I've decided to go for the address instead of mucking around with trying to reformat the postcodes? Well...

It works marvelously with a "proper address"

```
const deliverooAddress = document.querySelector('.address').innerText
// for example this would be "129 Nelson Street Tradeston, Glasgow, G58DZ"

let chopLocation = deliverooAddress.indexOf(",")
const restaurantAddress = deliverooAddress.slice(0,chopLocation)
// so in the end I'd get "129 Nelson Street Tradeston" which works great with the FSA API

```

Not so much with a very layered one:

```
const deliverooAddress = document.querySelector('.address').innerText
// this could be "Unit 27, Ground Floor, Mermaid Quay, Cardiff, CF105BZ"

let chopLocation = deliverooAddress.indexOf(",")
const restaurantAddress = deliverooAddress.slice(0,chopLocation)
// so yeah, "Unit 27" is not really helpful for the API

```

This was **exactly** what I've wanted to avoid: spending at least an hour immersing myself in the magical wonders of the UK postcode system. Thanks to our lord and saviour Stackoverflow, Regex and a person going by the name of [Borodin](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10700950/reformat-string-containing-uk-postcode-using-regex), in the end, this turned into a rather uncomplicated matter.

#### What I've managed to accomplish today:
- Created a content script (script that runs when you are on a /menu page on Deliveroo)
- Uploaded the FSA rating pics from 0-5 to Cloudinary and added a function to display them in the *restaurant description* section.
- Changed to be postcode based instead of address based

What's left?
- Need to display something when the restaurant is not yet in FSA's database (order at your own peril )
- Add more info next to the rating, a link maybe but most importantly address data from FSA's API to make sure there was no mix-up (i.e. *showing rating for KFC in E1 7QX*)
- Right now the extension only spits out an image if there is a 0-5 rating available. FSA has more ratings such as *pass* that needs to be added
- Also, would be nice to add Welsh language support later on

### Day 4 - I can see the finish line :checkered_flag:

Jk, this is development, it's never over. But hey, maybe I'm a tad closer to publishing this thing.

Let's start with the best part:

#### :poop: Today's Challenge
Originally the image sat below the restaurant description but it turned out not all places have a description so then I wanted the rating image to sit right under the restaurant type and address. **However**, that part is all `display:flex` in `row` so no amount of `align-self` could magically put the image under the metadata. Instead of trying to bodge it with css I've decided to solve it through DOM manipulation. Somehow, I had to break free of that div and create a sibling div. Long story short, I've learned a new thing in javascript: `node.insertBefore`

This is a monster but it works:

```

// 1. create a div
const ratingDiv = document.createElement('div')

// 2. add class to the new div
ratingDiv.classList.add('fsa__rating')

// 3. find the sibling/child div
const childDiv = document.querySelector('.restaurant__metadata')

// 4. find the parent
const container = childDiv.parentNode

// 5. in the parent insert the new div before the sibling
container.insertBefore(ratingDiv, childDiv)

```

The new display:

![rating image displayed and aligned properly right after restaurant name](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569333893/blog/notfound_oy6vsy.png)

#### What I've managed to accomplish today:
- Added a regex in the restaurant name's chop location variable because it turns out Deliveroo sometimes puts brackets in the name as well...
  
```
const restaurantChopLocation = deliverooRestaurantName.search(/(-|\()/g)
```
- The API fetch now has a condition that checks if there's a result, if not then a custom made "no result" image pops up *(see above image)*

Commit message:

adding to day3 and some formatting + todo/features

README.md, after:

# Am I getting food poisoning? :taco: :nauseated_face:

Spend less time on the :toilet: loo and more time enjoying the amazing variety of cuisines available in the UK :taco: :pizza: :hamburger: :green_salad:

This is a Chrome Extension checking the Food Standards Agency's ratings (Food Hygiene Information Scheme in Scotland) on Deliveroo so you know what to expect when ordering.

**Method**

1, get restaurant data (name and postcode) from the deliveroo menu page

2, send request with name and postcode to FSA's API

3, get the rating and display it somewhere on the deliveroo menu page

**Features/todo**

:ballot_box_with_check: Displays Food Hygiene Ratings for English and Welsh restaurants/establishments

:ballot_box_with_check: Displays the Food Hygiene Information Scheme certificates for Scottish restaurants/establishments

:white_medium_square: Welsh language support

:white_medium_square: Image to link the result on FSA's website for more info

:white_medium_square: Tests. There are a **bunch** of edgecases out there that are getting a bit tedious to test manually

## :book: Dev Diary

### Day 0 - Why am I doing this?

Being a UX developer I think users deserve to know if they are taking the food poisoning lottery. There should be an easy and quick way to check for this. Before you walk into a restaurant you can make this decision easily by looking at the mandatory FSA rating sign in the window. So why can't you get the same convenience whilst you are lying on your couch in your pajamas feeling too disgusting or lazy to pop ou for some takeaway?

I've had enough of Deliveroo's reluctance of displaying the Food Standards Agency's ratings on their website so I've decided to make a Chrome Extension.

Only problem: I've never in my life made an Extension before. But hey, I know coding...sort of.

This should be easy:

**1,** get restaurant data (name and address) from the deliveroo menu page

**2,** send request with name and address to FSA's API

**3,** get the rating and display it somewhere on the deliveroo menu page

### Day 1 - Maybe I can do this?

So, I've gone through a [nice little tutorial](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/getstarted) on the Chrome Dev site and I may not be too stupid to do this.

I've put together the basics, have a script running and the extension activates when you go on Deliveroo's website.

![My extension listed on the chrome extensions screen](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569250159/blog/extension1_ddlu5k.png)

### Day 2 - The importance of properly formatting your data

Managed to make a GET request to FSA's API and actually get an answer. Yay! Just had to add a header to my fetch() which I've never done before being reliant on AJAX/JQuery in the past.

```
fetch(`${apiURL}?name=${restaurantName}&address=${restaurantAddress}&pageSize=1`, {
 method: "GET",
 mode: "cors",
 headers: {
   "x-api-version": 2,
 }
})
```

#### :poop: Today's Challenge

- Deliveroo has the full address displayed in one `<small>` tag.
- The FSA API takes either a street name, city or **properly formatted** postcode as an address.

Naturally, I'd go for using the postcode as that's pretty unique. _However_, Deliveroo provides it without spaces. Go with as much of the address as possible then? Can't do that because FSA's API doesn't take combined data.

Let me demonstrate the cause of my headache with a _Burger King_ "restaurant" with the address Deliveroo provides: _90 Whitechapel High St, London, London, E17RA._

```
let restaurantAddress = "90 Whitechapel High St, London, London, E17RA"
// FAIL! FSA API will send me an empty array

let restaurantAddress = "E17RA"
// FAIL! Another empty array. FSA expects the proper formatting which is E1 7RA

let restaurantAddress = "90 Whitechapel High St, London"
// FAIL! Yep, still empty

let restaurantAddress = "90 Whitechapel High St"
// SUCCESS!

```

**Options**

1, Get the proper postcodes from - possibly - the Ordnance Survey and use those to format the ones I get from Deliveroo. I've Googled around, read a few Stackoverflow threads and concluded that I don't want to start hating myself so...

2, Cross my fingers and hope that providing the street address combined with the restaurant name will result in the FSA API returning data for the right restaurant in the proper city.

Going with #2, unsurprisingly. Will probably add some sort of confirmation/information bit next to the rating to let the user know which restaurant's rating the API coughed up. Maybe add a line of _Showing rating for xy restaurant in xyx 12x postcode_ (because funnily enough in the response the postcode is separated from the address lines...)

### Day 3 - The first taste of success :tada: :tada: :tada:

At first there was a number 4...

![A lonely number 4 displayed on Burger King's Deliveroo page](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569250161/blog/4444_ft1iv7.png)

_(Note how I've expertly managed to overwrite the restaurant description in my haste of using .innerhtml= instead of +=. Ooops.)_

After a little fiddling with cloud storage and some agonising over whether to use a bunch of if statements vs a switch statement I've finally arrived to this:

![Food Standards Agency's rating image displayed on Burger King's Deliveroo page](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569250206/blog/success_j78y07.png)

#### :poop: Today's Challenge

You know how I've decided to go for the address instead of mucking around with trying to reformat the postcodes? Well...

It works marvelously with a "proper address"

```
const deliverooAddress = document.querySelector('.address').innerText
// for example this would be "129 Nelson Street Tradeston, Glasgow, G58DZ"

let chopLocation = deliverooAddress.indexOf(",")
const restaurantAddress = deliverooAddress.slice(0,chopLocation)
// so in the end I'd get "129 Nelson Street Tradeston" which works great with the FSA API

```

Not so much with a very layered one:

```
const deliverooAddress = document.querySelector('.address').innerText
// this could be "Unit 27, Ground Floor, Mermaid Quay, Cardiff, CF105BZ"

let chopLocation = deliverooAddress.indexOf(",")
const restaurantAddress = deliverooAddress.slice(0,chopLocation)
// so yeah, "Unit 27" is not really helpful for the API

```

This was **exactly** what I've wanted to avoid: spending at least an hour immersing myself in the magical wonders of the UK postcode system. Thanks to our lord and saviour Stackoverflow, Regex and a person going by the name of [Borodin](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10700950/reformat-string-containing-uk-postcode-using-regex), in the end, this turned into a rather uncomplicated matter.

#### What I've managed to accomplish today:

- Created a content script (script that runs when you are on a /menu page on Deliveroo)
- Uploaded the FSA rating pics from 0-5 to _the cloud_ and added a function to display them in the _restaurant description_ section.
- Changed to be postcode based instead of address based

**What's left?**

- Need to display something when the restaurant is not yet in FSA's database (order at your own peril )
- Add more info next to the rating, a link maybe but most importantly address data from FSA's API to make sure there was no mix-up (i.e. _showing rating for KFC in E1 7QX_)
- Right now the extension only spits out an image if there is a 0-5 rating available. FSA has more ratings such as _pass_ that needs to be added
- Also, would be nice to add Welsh language support later on

### Day 4 - I can see the finish line :checkered_flag:

Jk, this is development, it's never over. But hey, maybe I'm a tad closer to publishing this thing. I'm super interested in what people will think about it...and whether Deliveroo will send some fancy solicitors after me (if they are reading this in the future: I'm no longer a UK resident and pretty broke, so good luck)

Let's start with the best part:

#### :poop: Today's Challenge

Originally the image sat below the restaurant description but it turned out not all places have a description so then I wanted the rating image to sit right under the restaurant type and address. **However**, that part is all `display:flex` in `row` so no amount of `align-self` could magically put the image under the metadata. Instead of trying to bodge it with css I've decided to solve it through DOM manipulation. Somehow, I had to break free of that div and create a sibling div. Long story short, I've learned a new thing in javascript: `node.insertBefore`

This is a monster but it works:

```

// 1. create a div
const ratingDiv = document.createElement('div')

// 2. add class to the new div
ratingDiv.classList.add('fsa__rating')

// 3. find the sibling/child div
const childDiv = document.querySelector('.restaurant__metadata')

// 4. find the parent
const container = childDiv.parentNode

// 5. in the parent insert the new div before the sibling
container.insertBefore(ratingDiv, childDiv)

```

The new display:

![rating image displayed and aligned properly right after restaurant name](https://res.cloudinary.com/du2vvjrb5/image/upload/v1569333893/blog/notfound_oy6vsy.png)

#### What I've managed to accomplish today:

- Added a regex in the restaurant name's chop location variable because it turns out Deliveroo sometimes puts brackets in the name as well...

```
const restaurantChopLocation = deliverooRestaurantName.search(/(-|\()/g)
```

- The API fetch now has a condition that checks if there's a result, if not then a custom made "no result" image pops up _(see above image)_
- Proper (final?) placement of the rating/certificate image
